# Stoic


# Stoic meditation

hedonic threadmill:
  * problem living life of "wanting stuff" is that once you get what you
    wanted you want a new thing
  * if you want a car once you buy it you want a better car
  * if you become a bilionair you may want to abondon your long loving
    wife for hot model

Stoic try to find a cure for "hedonic threadmill" in **learning how to
want what you already have** by using these techniques

where will-power fails is in a fact that one parth of mind gives you reason to forget about desire, the other part of brain will trigger desire in the first place


### negative visualization

* think of what if you loose something important
* it always can get worse
* if you live in a hut you may end up in Tent, if you live in a tent you
  may have to sleep on a street
* if you are going for a operation be glad that your doctor didn't tell
  you "your condition is in-operable


### last time visualization

or "last time" thinking

Imagine you are doing the thing you do last time. Last time you give a
kiss. Last time you eat chocolate. This way you make simple things more
enjoable


Super easy to take simple/small things for granted and not realize that
this may be last time you do them, but when was the last time you played
hide and seek. When was the last time you used rotary phone ?


#### why it's difficult to live in a moment

There is evolutionary benefit why we are always thinking about
past/future. Back in the days when we were hunters constantly thinking
about past / future increased our chances of not get killed or help us get
something to eat (wasn't a gazzel near that river last time I was hungry?)

Problem is that now days that same mechanism of overanalying past/future
is quite counter productive and make our life a missery (...why did I said
that; ...I should have done this, ... I will be happy once I xyz)


> And that's why it's super hard to get focused in midful meditation

So there was no real benefitt on siting down in savana and enjoing the
view as it was wast of time to gather food or oportunity to get killed.


Last time vizualization provides a trick to better live in the moment



### You are living the dream life

- dude paralyze d 

Prospective retrospection
- this are the good old days
- think of current events from perspective of a past. Remember that time (rainy day)

Negative thinking in small doses is good for you as it strengthen our psychological imune system 

Stoic would dismiss that negative vthinking attracts negative stuff happening to us. If we don't think negatively we don't strengthen bus and we will be like bubble boy

Hate speach and cancel culture bill backfire as proper way i s to dismiss or laugh it off . Not overreact to criticism .

Stoic training: try doin uncomfortable things to strengthen personality. E.g Senica was bilionair and he wear old clothes few times a year

Bjj


### Framing:

Imagine you are on a jog and someone tackles you. The tackle itself is
bad only in context of this happening in the given situation. If someone
tackled you during American Footbal it may be a good thing actually

it's up to us how we perceive what happened. It's us who allows ourself to get angry, not situations themself

Rembrant in wrong frame is hidious

Incompetence frame - expect people to not be competent enough so that
you are pleasent supprised if they do it right. if they don't you would
shrug.

Comic frame - turn bad stuff to comedy (Socrates was hit to head once.
He responded by saying "you never know what day to wear a helmet")

As it you write a autobiography

Or story of obstacles placed by gods you needed to overcome



Silver lining

• there is no cloud that brings no benefit for someone
• e.g. pandemic, manny business went under, but many this situation helped. Environmental better
• if you loose a job it may be opportunity for better job 

Farmer story

```
There is a Taoist story of an old farmer who had worked his crops for many years. One day his horse ran away. Upon hearing the news, his neighbors came to visit. "Such bad luck," they said sympathetically. "May be," the farmer replied.

The next morning the horse returned, bringing with it three other wild horses. "How wonderful," the neighbors exclaimed. "May be," replied the old man.

The following day, his son tried to ride one of the untamed horses, was thrown, and broke his leg. The neighbors again came to offer their sympathy on his misfortune. "May be," answered the farmer.

The day after, military officials came to the village to draft young men into the army. Seeing that the son's leg was broken, they passed him by. The neighbors congratulated the farmer on how well things had turned out. "May be," said the farmer.
```

Things don't happen to you. They just happen



### Bedtime Meditation

* observe and critizise yourself (as if you would look at other person)
* socrates : Unexamed life is not worth living
* stoic has only one life to carve to somethnig beutiful* stoic has only
  one life to carve to somethnig beutiful

* self reflect before falling the sleep what did you do good, what bad. Did you get angry?

* reflecting on a day will help you not to repeat old mistakes, move on to do new mistakes


you have only yourself to blame if you get angry


